You decided to join Twitter recently.
Put out your first tweet. Mark
Andreessen quote tweeted it and said
this is the best AI CEO nobody knows our
best work is done alone and quietly.
Every minute you're writing something
for public consumption you're not
focusing your very limited time that you
have on your customers and your product.
You're building a lot of the future that
we're going to be living in. What does
the next couple years look like?
>> Us solving some of these impossible
problems like cancer are directly going
to be related to this AI boom. Net
suffering in humanity overall should go
down significantly. A threat that has
emerged on this podcast is that AI is
coming just in time to save us.
>> The real impact of AI in the next 5 to
10 years really is going to be in
farming, mining, construction. These
industries they need autonomy and it
couldn't come soon enough. If you look
at farmers the average age of a farmer
is in their late 50s. What does that
mean in 10 years from now?
>> There's a lot of anxiety about what AI
is going to do to the world.
>> The core root of fears is
misunderstanding. If you at home are
very anxious about AI the best thing
that you can do is spend time to
understand and you will quickly see the
limitations. Get to know it then
actively make the technology be used for
good.
Today my guest is Kaster Yunis,
co-founder and CEO of Applied Intuition.
You've probably never heard of Kaster or
Applied Intuition. This is the most
important under the radar AI company and
CEO that I've ever come across. It's a
15 billion-dollar company that has been
growing quietly over the last decade.
What they do is they add AI to vehicles
like cars, tractors, planes, submarines,
mining rigs, and a lot more. 18 out of
the top 20 automakers are customers as
well as the biggest global construction,
mining, and trucking companies. Also the
Department of Defense. They're basically
Waymo or Tesla but without the hardware.
Kaster himself was born on a farm in
Pakistan, grew up in Detroit, started
his career as an engineer at GM, and
then at Bosch. He then went on to start
a couple companies before starting
Applied Intuition. I love everything
about this episode and I'm so excited to
bring it to you. Don't forget to check
out Lenny's product fast.com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Let's get into it after a
short word from our wonderful sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by Omni.
Many product teams today are in the
process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guess at SQL in production
is a huge mess and just a bad idea. Omni
takes a different approach. They have a
semantic layer built in so that when you
embed their analytics, the AI actually
knows your business definitions, not
just your raw tables. You can test
queries, validate the reasoning, and
lock down permissions before anything
hits production. If you want AI
analytics in your product without
building the whole stack from scratch,
check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3-week trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and BuzzFeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's o m n i dot c o slash
lenny.
My podcast guest tonight love talking
about craft and taste and agency and
product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? SOC 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industry-leading AI, automation, and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first SOC 2 or ISO
or an enterprise managing vendor risk,
Vanta's trust management platform makes
it quicker, easier, and more scalable.
Vanta also helps you complete security
questionnaires up to five times faster
so that you can win bigger deals sooner.
The result, according to a recent IDC
study, Vanta customers slashed over
$500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Kaster, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast. Thanks for
having me. You're basically building uh
a lot of the future that we're going to
be living in and people may not even
realize this. And then kind of there's
two sides to this. On the one side, let
me ask you this question. If things go
really well,
what does the next couple years look
like for people with the emergence of AI
with physical AI? What are What are
What's a vision of the future? Let me
take the broader AI point and then the
the the micro the more specific one on
physical AI.
Macro, I I think
think about this like the Industrial
Revolution, right? So, if you're
sitting, let's say in the late 1800s,
there's a lot of, you know, we can focus
on a lot of bad things that happened
because of the Industrial Revolution,
right? You have child labor and you have
monopolies emerging and you have abuse
of, you know, your your wars end up
happening.
Uh but there's also it's an almost
almost unimaginable present without the
values and what what without without the
kind of benefits we got out of the
Industrial Revolution, which is
broader access to health care like we've
never seen before. Broader like
access to goods, material goods, things
like we take for granted like heating
and cooling your home. There there's
this uh there there's this great um
YouTube kind of channel that focuses on
POW letters from Germans who are seeing
America in the early '40s and they're
writing letters back to Germany about
what they're seeing as they're
basically, you know, prisoners of war.
And they're kind of blown away that the
towns that they roll by in these trains
as they're going to
their POW camps are all lit up or that
there's cars everywhere.
80% of German towns in World War II did
not have electricity. And that's kind of
a mind-bending kind of thing cuz we just
assume all this stuff all this
technology is, you know, uh equally
distributed. So, the positive version is
these things that we
let's say folks who are
uh wealthy or folks who have access to
technology,
these things everybody has access to.
The the the fact like simply having
somebody who's a coach to you and having
that coach very specifically to you, not
a generic you know, chat GPT that's
giving fairly generic answers. This is a
very powerful thing. I think us solving
some of these impossible problems like
cancer are directly going to be related
to this AI boom. Uh so, I think net
suffering in humanity, I think just like
the Industrial Revolution
overall should go down and should go
down significantly. And I'm a
fundamental optimist in that view that
technology will bring that that that
that the positivity. In physical AI
specifically,
again, you know, when you when you have
things like your
uh you have your own car and you have
the ability you have your limbs and you
have your your senses and you can drive,
you take these kind of things for
granted. You jump in your car and you go
to the store. Uh
for somebody who maybe is disabled or
somebody who doesn't have the money to
afford a vehicle, access to mobility
that's nearly free or is free is a big
deal. And that like simple example of
making self-driving cars free for
everybody and how that would change the
planet,
you live in Rwanda and you are 2 hours
from the nearest hospital, that matters
that in very, very true way. And so, I
think a a lot of let's say the
negativity around AI comes from people
who frankly speaking are living in a
very, very good existence. And when you
live on the other edge of society, yes,
and I'm not like some naive person who
thinks that there's no downsides of
technology. We can discuss that. But I I
I just see there's a a lot more
positive. So, when you ask that
question, what's the next forget 3 to 5
years, what's the next 20 years? These
things that we take for for granted that
are bad
uh suddenly are not there. Uh and I
think I think certain diseases, uh
certain in
accessibility to
basic
uh you know, services suddenly start
going away. One last example that is
you take just the fact that you can
message people basically for free. You
know, for people old enough like this is
not the norm. We came from Pakistan. We
couldn't even communicate back to
Pakistan because the long distance, you
know, was so expensive and so was
handwritten letters. Today, you can
basically contact anybody on the planet
basically for free. There's obvious
downsides for that. But there there's a
lots of upsides for that, which is being
in touch with people that you care about
and you love
basically for free. And so, I think AI
has the ability to bring this abundance
to many many more people
at a near free
uh you know, free free cost. On the flip
side of this, as you pointed out
there's a lot of there's a lot of
anxiety about what AI is going to do to
the world, to jobs, uh robots. There're
like these videos coming out of China
with these robots with nunchucks. Uh
like the stock market
>> I I feel you know what? I feel the
nunchuck union is up at arms with that.
How do you turn it?
Yeah, but it's you know, it's scary and
the you know, the market's reacting more
and more to just like, "Oh wow, these
companies are maybe not going to survive
long term."
Uh
again, being at the the center of this
and and building a lot of this the stuff
that'll get us there. How do you how do
you envision the couple years playing
out? Like are you optimistic? What keeps
you optimistic? Any advice to people
that to help them kind of stay, you
know, calm through this period? Those
are two separate things. Anxiety around
technical shift and then the and public
investors reacting to specific stocks
they've held. We have to separate those
things. So, let's talk about them
separately. And the first one, you know,
the the core root of fear is is
misunderstanding. And I think the if you
at home are very anxious about the
impact of
AI in some variant on your own job, the
best thing that you can do is spend time
to understand it. And you will quickly
see the limitations. There's some great
videos on YouTube which are like, you
know, trying to get Gemini to understand
what a cup is by just holding it upside
down and it like really strong and then
they do it with, you know, ChatGPT. So,
it's like if the if the revolution is
coming, you know,
the AI overlords have to first
understand like the top and bottom of a
cup. And so, you realize that you can
see the video of nunchuck-wielding
humanoids which are pre-programmed and
they cost 15 million dollars to do that
video.
Um
yeah, that that is true. It's not it's
not fake. I'm not I'm not implying it's
fake. But, it's also not what your brain
kind of fills in the gaps. You see
nunchuck robots and you just feel like,
well, the gap these these are sentient
beings that are at their own volition
going rather than it's a bunch of motors
that have been programmed to do a
certain thing. If you really want to be
impressed, you go to a car factory and
they've we've been doing that for 25
years. very, very advanced robots moving
extremely fast to build things. And why
are we don't we have anxiety about the
car factory, but we have anxiety about
the nunchuck robots is because the human
being doesn't like that gap. We
understand the gap of, you know, of a
welding robot. You see, okay, that's a
robot that's been programmed to make
this weld. But, we don't know the
technology we as in just as an
individual human being living in, you
know, in the world. You don't know how
that robot was made to do that nunchuck
thing, and so you substitute that with
anxiety and fear.
And so I would really implore you to
you know, kind of learn more about the
technology and you start seeing the
edges. Now, does that take away from the
most fundamental thing that you're
getting at, the string that you're
pulling at, which is like is society
going to be fundamentally harmed,
um, and is this, you know, net net bad
for society? I think in any technical
shift, the emergence of WhatsApp,
just as an example. There are people who
are damaged by that. Literally companies
that go away, but also humans who are
damaged by the advent of that
technology. And so I think as members of
society and as leaders in society, we
can
we can kind of move that funnel in
whichever way, you know, technology for
Remove the word AI. AI is such a like
emotional word and because it it's
wrapped in these things you don't know.
And so that fear then kind of deforms.
So let's just say technology.
You know, so
so so I think it's it's up to us to
recognize this technology can be used
for good and technology can be used for
bad.
And I think that's where really the the
focus is. So get to know it and then
actively make the technology be used for
good.
Uh, as a participant whether you're
founder or all the way as as a as an
individual, you know, employee or
citizen of a large company. Then on the
second part of the question about, you
know, public investors and stuff. This
is my I don't have any, you know,
particular research on this, but this is
what my guess is what's actually
happened.
Uh, beyond being an engineer, which is
my my core identity for the lack of
better word,
um, I was also I did an MBA at Harvard.
And so that was the first time that this
uh, let's say do you know I didn't come
from very, uh, you know, a
a very very kind of wealthy upbringings.
And this is the first time when I went
to Harvard I saw like, you know, that
world, that world of people having like
private jets and stuff. That was a
really eye-opening experience for me.
But the real world I was exposed to was
high finance. And how high finance
works. And you might think, as I did,
from far away, that folks in at hedge
funds or at large, you know, public
equities funds are extremely nuanced and
thoughtful. And they are like, you know,
on whiteboards with you know,
you know,
uh extremely deep and and oh, maybe even
theoretical math to figure out should
they buy or sell, you know, Figma.
And that's not actually how it works. I
mean, really what these folks are is in
in this specific case, I think what's
happening is they're they buy and sell
stock. They are smart people and they do
work hard. It's not to take take that
away. But they they don't have a
fundamental edge that you would assume
that uh somebody who sits in the you
know, skyscraper in New York has. And by
the way, that's why retail investors
have have have become such a
uh active and and and and kind of
significant part of the market. So,
those folks have gone to AI consultants
and have gone to people who are
literally developers uh at these firms.
And they'll do something like, "Hey, why
don't you build me this app
in a week?" And then, you know, this
like consultancy will come back with an
app which kind of looks like
maybe a Figma or another, you know, some
some some web app. And said hedge fund
manager, they're like, "Well." And then,
you know, if if the company was sitting
there, they would say, "No, no, this is
this just looks like my app, but this is
actually not my app. It's not as deep.
It doesn't have all these things. It
doesn't have integrations with all these
other other systems." But for the in
public investor by, they're like, "Yeah,
but it only took like a few weeks or a
month to build this. It took you 500
engineers a couple of years."
This AI thing could be real. And the
things I'm reading on X about like just
vibe coding your way to replace, you
know, billion-dollar companies, that
might be the case and the market
immediately prices in that risk.
And that's where that sell-off comes
from. That doesn't necessarily mean all
of this I mean I just within the last 24
hours I had a
uh that's I I would I I can't say his
name but he looked like a very uh let's
say a calibrated investor who said this
is the time to buy because these
companies are not actually going away.
And it it and and so
I think those are two anxiety within
society and the sell-off are two very
different things. They're motivated by
different things. They're part of the
larger AI narrative, but I wouldn't
conflate those two things. It's not that
the
the hedge fund investors like, "I'm
worried about society. Sell service
now." Like it's
like it's it's there there's there there
it's it's it's different than that. At
least that's my impression. This is the
alpha we've been talking about. Time to
buy. This is not investment advice.
But that's really good advice. I think
the real advice is
to to fight fear
and I feel that anxiety, especially when
I go to Michigan and I I you know,
outside of people in the Silicon Valley
bubble, it's like just just try to learn
a little bit uh about the technology
that you're afraid of and then you'll
start seeing some of the the edges. I
love your point about how self-driving
cars are essentially robots. We don't
call them that, but they're robots.
Absolutely. And you see an autonomous
truck wheeling a robot, a self-driving
car doing bad things is could be very
dangerous already. Uh and so that's a
really good reframe that if you just
think of it, it's just another robot and
it's been really good for us. And by the
way, the self-driving thing as an
example, you know,
whichever way you slice uh the
statistics that are available from
self-driving companies, they're
supremely supremely more safe than human
drivers. And I I do believe in 20 or 30
years, not that much longer, we'll look
back and we'll kind of be like it's kind
of like we think about child labor. You
know, in a post-industrial revolution,
that was a normal thing.
You would send kids who are in middle
school to go work. It happens in third
world countries today. It's There isn't
a lot of emotion behind it. It is not
considered to be exploitative because
you have no choice.
You know, everyone just look
and I think we'll look back in 25, 30
years and we're like, "People were just
like
tired,
uh under the influence, you know, after
like extremely stressed, going through a
traumatic life, you know, experience,
and then they jump in into a car." Like
that that that that's the that that's
it's it is crazy. And and just for
everyone Everyone should really
emotionally think about just in the
United States over 30,000
people will die
in the next year
from these accidents.
That like you know, the old Stalin line,
it's like uh you know, a
a one death is a tragedy, a million is a
statistic. And we just let the statistic
kind of go over our head like, "Oh, it's
30,000 people." But if you've ever
talked to a family of somebody who went
through a tragedy like a car accident,
it isn't it's unbelievable. And and and
you know, you you suddenly all the fear
of AI robots goes away and you really
see the human impact and you realize
like actually us driving doesn't make
sense. And it's not for any other reason
than literally people die. I've become a
a huge I have Tesla and the self- I just
use self-driving all the time now. Just
like a few months ago it got very good
and it's it used to be nerve-wracking
and now it's like, "Wow, this is much
better
>> And and and you're doing you're you're
not using you're not doing driving as a
job. Imagine if you're a commercial
truck driver or you work in a mine or
you work, you know, like there
a little bit of intelligence, a helping
hand in that very dangerous task, it's
it's an it's an it's incredible. And I
think there's something about the human
brain where
you know, when you when you bring up
that that reality of like self-driving
trucks,
the immediate people are like, "Well,
what about the trucking jobs? Now,
needless to say that we don't have
enough people who want to do that job.
So, little leave that fact to the side.
I think the fact that you really focus
on is the fact that people die from
trucking accidents.
Like we we like we can't you know, throw
out the baby with the bathwater. And so,
I think I implore everybody, you know,
who thinks about AI broadly and physical
AI specifically to always recognize that
your monkey brain
is programmed because of thousands of
years of being in cave you know,
hundreds of thousands of years of living
out in the wild and being in the cave
that when you hear the rustle in the
bush, that is you think it's a snake
because that's what our ancestors were
programmed. So, now when something new
enters our
psyche, your your your view isn't, well,
if if mining if if mines became
autonomous, well, wouldn't that lose
jobs? It's like, those are awful jobs
that people die in and the best evidence
is that people don't want to work in
them. Like that's the best evidence.
Like no nobody's clamoring to go work in
a in a mine in a remote area. And so,
intelligence can help make that, you
know, make that reality much much
better. People are seeing AI advance in
all these different ways on the software
side and they see all these models being
released and it's driving 100% of
people's code now. What's really cool
about you is you see the hardware side
of this. And I think one of the biggest
changes to our lives will probably be
robots walking around doing things for
us. Do you have a sense of just how
close we are to just robots around us
day-to-day?
So, I would think about the this
uh, the framing here matters again.
Uh, of a spectrum.
So, there are robots around us like uh,
Zumbas you know, like they
clean your carpet while you're sleeping.
Uh, there's robots around you when you
make a coffee. There's that's an
automated machine that is taking an
input and doing a bunch of things based
on your you know, your your you what you
need. So, what you're really talking
about is
how fast can you go up that spectrum
to where you have a robot that can take
on lots of tasks with little guidance.
And the way that I would think about
this is, let's say we're sitting in this
podcast is happening not in 2026, but
2006. And you're asking me the same
question about mobile. And you say,
"Well, mobile is coming." This is
remember pre-iPhone, uh which comes out
in '07. Everyone has got those flip
phones. So, we have some We have mobile.
It's not like a completely, you know,
So, we have some robots around us
already.
But like it's like okay, so what when
are we going to And you ask me in 2006,
"When are we going to get that Star Trek
phone that can do everything?" And I
think at that time I would say, cuz I
don't even know the iPhone is coming a
year later, I would say, "Well, Lenny, I
don't I don't know.
Maybe it's 1 to 5 years." And if it's
not 5 years later that Uber, WhatsApp,
Instagram, Snapchat are all products and
they're being consumed by many, many,
many millions of people. So, what
happens when you think about sitting in
2006 and why can't your brain
figure out that Instagram is coming?
Well, Instagram is very hard to even
conceive without phones that have an app
store, have cameras on both sides, are
available, generally available, that
lots of people have it. And the fact
that people are comfortable being on
social networks. In 2006, it's still an
early thing. This is pre-Twitter and
Facebook is not that big. And MySpace
is, but it's not the same type of
private kind of communication. And so,
so the the the the point I'm making is
I think it can come
pretty fast.
But the way and the form factor it'll
come is hard to pick, just like it's
hard to figure out Instagram's going to
happen because
the the the intelligence in that
particular type of hardware, which will
be generally available, that's the key
word, generally available, is really
going to impact the use cases. So, I
think like the most obvious use cases
that will come early are going to be use
cases where you get the most amount of
bang for buck.
And the bang for buck is
a car that drives itself, or a mining
robot which is a mining vehicle which is
now intelligent. And the reason is all
that, you know, let's say engineering
required to make this giant, you know,
machine that moves dirt has already been
done. It's been done over the last, you
know, 50 60 years. So, then you're just
in putting a little bit of intelligence
into it and leveraging everything else
that that that the, you know, companies
and and and and kind of people have
developed. So, I think, I mean, and I'm
not just, you know, pitching my own
book. I mean, we're a physical AI
company. I I I continue to believe that
we're I think our brain emotionally
loves the humanoid concept because of
we're monkeys. And but actually,
uh just like more pragmatically, it's
actually just putting intelligence in
the things that already exist all around
us. And I think And then once that
happens, then new applications will
emerge which I think we'll talk about in
5 to 7 years, uh which will be which
we'll start seeing. So, let's let's just
move forward 5 to 7 years. And let's see
what reality exists. And then maybe we
can try to jump into the future from
there. I think generally speaking, every
every single car company on the planet
right now is working on a product that's
like a Tesla FSD product. Every single
car company there with without
exception. Uh many many companies are
working in versions of that that will
become fully autonomous within a cheap
sensor suite. So, the the fundamental
difference, just to simplify it all, the
Tesla approach versus the Waymo
approach, just to really keep it simple,
is the Waymo approach is lots of sensors
and lots of compute and maps. And the
Tesla version is very few sensors, no
maps, or, you know, no high-fidelity
maps. I'm just generalizing here. And a
cheaper compute for the lack of better
word. And the Tesla
version of a product, uh this is in the
industry is called an L2 plus plus
product. Is going to be available
everywhere because it's literally
cheaper and it doesn't require like HD
maps. The way more product functions
better in a geographically constrained
area. So, you fast forward 5 years, both
of these types
of technologies will be much more
ubiquitous. L2 plus plus and L4 be much
more ubiquitous not only in the Bay Area
or in parts of China, but really
globally. The there are companies
working on this globally. So, now do you
I don't know if you remember, but nav
systems used to be a big deal in cars.
You would pay thousands of dollars and
nav systems are kind of the thing that
everybody wanted. We're at that moment
for L2 plus plus systems where like
people are willing to pay thousands of
dollars for an a semi-automated vehicle.
It will not be a long time. You're
already seeing this happen in China
where the downward pricing pressure for
that autonomous product, for the lack of
better word, will become close to free.
So, now you fast forward 5 to 7 years
and every car has some level of
autonomy. So, now you have to like
mentally live in that reality that
everybody who's buying a car, they just
get FSD with it. Now you start seeing a
different world because now the
average person isn't wondering is
self-driving going to come to they use
it all the time. They don't wonder are
navs and so what you have in nav systems
is
a car play emerges and Android Auto
emerges and it's very natural. People
are like, "Oh, I have my phone. I just
plug it in." And and there wasn't a big
revolution about the car play and
Android Auto revolution is actually
huge. It brings free navigation and free
applications to your car and it's fairly
ubiquitous. And so, I think the next
thing that happens in 5 to 7 years is
then full autonomy becomes a thing that
everyone expects.
And so, I think and all of that and you
will see a clear decrease in injuries
and death uh, because of that uh,
because you have some intelligence
helping you help help you drive. So, now
again, I'm using the consumer vehicle
analogies just so people can understand
it.
But this is the same construction. It's
the same in mining. It's the same in
defense. It's this It's in every one of
these verticals are these big physical
machines that humans are interacting
with. That teaming up with that machine
is the future. The productivity unlocked
from just you
looking at a machine
not like a sentient being, but but but
almost like an a physical agent of
something you're trying to accomplish
unlocks things that I think are very
hard to think about. So I I love, you
know,
you know, things like malt book and I
love oh the let's say open claw
revolution that's happening for the lack
of a better word. But I think the big
impact that's still that's still such a
small part of society. My my my my
barometer of impact is like you go to,
you know, the Detroit airport and you
sit in a gate and you look around and
you're like, how many people here are
using open claw? And it's like let me
into like like you might be the only
person who knows what that is. And uh
and whereas everybody they're living
their lives. They're and and so it's
like to them actually the the impact of
AI is going to be in this physical
physical world. I see you also have a
You have some Yeah, there you go.
>> out?
I'm a convert open claw.
>> There you go. Perfect. Perfect.
>> coming on the pod soon so I got some
some lobster claws.
>> yes, I think I think the real impact of
AI in the next
5 to 10 years really is going to be in
farming, in mining, in construction, in
self-driving trucks. That's where you're
going to have a have a real impact.
Though I think I mean I I I I love the
stuff that's happening on on these
platforms, but it's still segregated to
like frankly developers and some some a
small very very small part of society. I
wasn't planning to spend so much time
here, but this is extremely interesting
and I think it's important for people to
hear from folks like you about where
things are headed because as I said,
everyone's just like, what is happening?
What is going to be my future?
The jobs piece is really interesting and
you have a thread that has come emerged
on this podcast recently is that like
people are afraid AI will take their
jobs, but in reality AI is coming just
in time to save us because populations
are declining, people are aging, and we
need something to help us there. I know
this is something you and like it's
something Mark talked about and you're
really close to them. Help help us feel
better about just how AI isn't going to
take our jobs and actually going to save
save us.
Yeah, I think I think honestly speaking
these industries like they need
autonomy. I mean and and and and and it
and it couldn't come soon enough
frankly speaking. This is not like
people are not fighting for those
trucking jobs.
If you look at farmers, average age of a
farmer is in their late 50s, 58 or so.
What what does that mean in 10 years
from now? That means many of those
farmers are going to be retiring if
they're not already retired and 20 years
we have an even a bigger a bigger
problem. That by the way is every
vertical is like that. And I you know my
hypothesis here but unlike you know
sometimes people say like you know
McDonald's can't hire or like you know
the the mine local query can't hire and
where all the people? The people are
still here. I think they just the
trade-off is just not worth it anymore.
In the 1980s in the 1990s doing the long
haul trucking job was what the family
has to sacrifice. The father not being
there for for days and weeks on end. And
today that same working class family
has can make that decision and say you
know what? I will drive for Uber or
DoorDash.
And I'm willing to do that because I can
turn that app off and pick up my kid and
I prioritize that. The the that is where
I think this you know this this kind of
intelligence kind of revolution in the
real world is really I think is going to
fill those gaps in.
Um
rather than like an entire industry
suddenly gone and it's just automated.
This is this is this is this is this is
I I don't believe that future mainly
because the realities of actually you
know, replacing an entire industry with
robots is is is still that's too
complex. One day it will happen, but
it's not happening anytime soon. But the
entire society will be different by that
point. And I think again, use the
Industrial Revolution as as a good
version of that. I I the you know, the
the earlier question, if I'm somebody
who is not in the AI ecosystem
and I have this anxiety and how would I
do with it?
Reading history books is a great way to
really understand how society deals with
this. And there are there's a lot of
literature because Industrial Revolution
doesn't happen like, you know, in the
dawn of Christianity where not many
people are writing and not many people
are reading. Lots of people are writing,
lots of people are reading in that in in
the last 150 years. And you can read
both the people who are impacted by the
Industrial Revolution and people who are
benefiting from it. And by and large,
it's a very positive experience. And
that doesn't mean there again, there are
the downsides. We should mitigate the
downsides. But the thing that we can't
do and this is maybe specifically as
America or society as
the the global population as a whole,
there's this impetus to say like we got
to pump this break on again, don't say
AI, say technology. Pump this break on
technology. The issue then is the
American economy
really ends up stuttering and that
impacts
the lowest end of the labor market labor
market way more than anybody else. And
so in the attempt to help the people who
are the most marginalized, we actually
hurt them the most. And the the you
know, the the statistics between Europe
and America are you know, been have been
have been a pretty explicit, but in the
last decade basically the American
economy is is now you know, it grown at
a much higher pace and that growth
hasn't come from, you know, Detroit,
Michigan.
That growth has come from Mountain View,
and it's come from Sunnyvale, it's come
from the Bay Area. And what's this
another way of saying it's because of
new frontier technologies. So, putting
brakes on frontier technologies because
we're afraid of unintended consequences
will actually have real intended
consequences on people who are trying to
help them most.
And the reality is very, very
fundamental. In a future that does not
take the average worker and the average
person in America, we'll have much
bigger problems. So, we need a solution
that takes that into account. But that
solution isn't just pump the brakes, AI
is bad, or
frontier technology is bad, or
technology is bad, or whatever, you
know, whatever thing that you you don't
like. I think that that that'll have
really, really bad consequences. One of
the reasons that we don't pump the
brakes is just fear of China and
competition with China.
Uh the Nanchaku robots uh being a recent
example of like, "Oh shit." Uh
and you have kind of a contrarian take
on just how much of a threat China is
and how they're approaching things.
The summary version of this is I think
the way you we we recently read as a
company, we read this book House of
Huawei, which is just a really great,
interesting book. And uh Huawei is a
really amazing company
uh for the reason that it makes great
technology. But
the couple hundred thousand people that
work at Huawei, about a quarter of them
are members of the Communist Party.
And Huawei's goal is not to grow profits
or share holders, it's a private
company, it's really a extension of the
state. So, uh literally the name Huawei
means China's ambition. So, imagine if
you had a company called, you know,
MAGA, and half of the company or a
quarter of the company was a certain
political party, and they said, "Our
goal isn't to make profits
or to and our goal is just the expansion
of it." It's not even a company anymore.
It's It's It's something else, right?
And so I think we incorrectly when we
specifically speak of Americans uh
we think about China, we impart our
understanding of markets and companies
onto China. So we think Huawei, since
they make phones, they must be just like
Apple. It's like no, no, no, no.
Actually, they're not That's not like
Apple at all. And so I think the first
thing I would implore everybody who
thinks about China, especially with
anxiety in America, is you're not
comparing companies to companies. This
is This is not apples to apples. This is
very, very different. And so
imagine instead of thinking OpenAI is
competing against, you know, Deep Seek,
you say OpenAI is competing against the
Chinese government. Instead of Apple
competing against Huawei, Apple's
competing against the Chinese
government. And you can even remove the
word Chinese Government is the best word
to to define what this organization is,
but it's not a for-profit, privately
owned, independent group of people who
are working on projects together to
build build products to to market. So
that's the first very important thing.
You cannot treat China like another
America or another Europe or another
whatever. Number two is if your goal
isn't to make profits,
you can do incredible research, and it
can be extremely compelling. But like
we've seen,
uh if you're if the if the if the system
is not sustainable, that's also not a
company that's not sustainable. Let me
give a very stark example of that.
Chinese EVs are really lauded as being
this exceptionally interesting product,
right? And uh and and you constantly get
the streamer of I would say fairly
shallow analysis which says, "Look how
good China is. Look how bad Munich,
Detroit, Tokyo, uh Seoul are, the other
other epicenters for automotive
globally."
There is a Chinese EV-like company in
America. It's called Rivian. Makes great
products,
uh but they lose a lot of money making
those products, and therefore or company
is not very highly valued.
I think if you said top 50 or top 100
companies in the Bay Area, I'm not sure
Rivian would would even make that list.
And it's not that the products are bad
or the people at Rivian are incompetent
or they're not working hard. It's just
the business is a tough business. The EV
business in automotive is a tough
business. So, how can we hold these
realities so we say, "Look how amazing
these Chinese EV companies are and look
how bad the home team is."
It's just because the home team is being
assessed for being a business. It has to
make profits and because it doesn't, it
gets hammered by public investors.
The other thing is not even a company.
Now, let's if we did apples to apples,
you see this America just has has to
build great EVs.
That means Tesla and everybody else
combined and we don't care about
profits, I think America would field
some very good products and they would
be wow products. So, it's the the
comparisons are really really off and I
think that's creates an
misunderstanding.
I think you know,
then then the maybe the most
philosophical question. Can China
succeed and does that mean America has
to fail or vice versa? If you believe in
open and free markets, you believe
everybody can succeed in those markets
and that's been proven for over 100
years.
Uh and I think what we're experiencing
right now is how does China play in that
ecosystem because I said open and free
markets and those are not open and free
markets. And so, but that doesn't
necessarily mean that you have to have
an antagonistic relationship. It
certainly doesn't mean that China is
incompetent and it certainly doesn't
mean that it's not doesn't warrant our
attention and that
our our kind of let's say focus.
But, it's also not a one-to-one
comparison. I think we should be very
careful in implying it's a one-to-one
comparison. And by the way, that like
5-minute explanation is never going to
get to the average person sitting at an
airport in Detroit, Michigan waiting for
their flight. They just all they consume
is China bad.
Like it's like that's not it's not like
that. It's not that
it's not that simple. It's way more
nuanced.
This episode is brought to you by
lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history. I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no-code tools, lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
So, you decided to join Twitter
recently, put out your first tweet. Your
first tweet was just like, "Hello, I'm
going to start tweeting."
That tweet got like 2 million views. Uh
Elon replied to you. Marc Andreessen uh
quote tweeted it and said, "This is the
best AI CEO nobody knows. Follow for the
for free alpha."
Uh Elad Gil, famed investor, describes
you as the most successful, most quiet
company in AI.
And to me, this is really interesting
because most founders are told uh build
in public, build a following, be loud,
get out there, talk all the time about
what you're doing. You did the opposite.
You were very under the radar, stayed
quiet, build, build, build, and then
decided later, "Okay, now it's time it's
time to talk about our story." So, I
think this counter narrative is really
interesting and I think will inspire a
lot of founders to not feel like they
have to do this.
What was your just philosophy of just
start staying quiet and then starting?
Yeah, to Yeah, it's it's a it's a great
point. Um so, number one, it was
intentional and and I think if it was up
to me, it would we would do that
forever. I think we're very much um,
inspired by folks more like a Berkshire
Hathaway and less like, you know, let's
say a Silicon Valley darling. And um,
the I'll I'll tell tell why I changed
the views and then just but before some
founders go and take that advice uh,
immediately without without really
thinking about it. I can do that because
I'm known in the ecosystem. You know, I
know these folks personally. And so I
don't need to
have a uh, a brand out there that is
getting a lot to, you know, remember me
and think about me. And so if you're,
you know, if I'm doing my first two
companies uh, were a lot less known as
before I really, you know, became a YC.
So you know, all of our company values
can be reduced these two words of
radical pragmatism. So before you take
the advice, make sure it applies to your
situation. One of the reasons and Naval
who's one of our investors and and a
friend
uh, you know, says, you know, fame
itself is like a tool and it's and it's
powerful. Now if you don't have a
network and you can get a following,
that's a fantastic way to get, you know,
to recruit people to your company, to
recruit investors to your mission and
then of course, you know, uh, customers.
And so but for us uh, and I think I
think that wasn't a hard requirement,
you know, 10 10 plus years ago. The
other thing is I think Peter and I you
know, the old saying about life is kind
of like
you do things and then you rationalize
the thing that you do, right? So
I think fundamentally Peter and I we
don't get a lot of like co-founder Peter
level, we don't get a lot of emotional
satisfaction out of doing very public
things. And I think if I was really to
play armchair psychologist and really
try to get to the root of why beyond the
rational view which is focus on your
customers, focus on the product. Every
minute you're doing a podcast, every
minute you're doing an ex post, every
minute you're writing something for
public consumption, you're not focusing
your very limited time that you have on
your customers and your product. And
ultimately, that's the only thing that's
going to produce and yield results. But
the but the the the you know, the the
reality of the situation today, if you
know, in 2026,
is even a company like us that's known
or or somebody like me is known in the
ecosystem, you still want to get that
broader message out. And that's what I
talk a little bit a little bit about on
on on X. So, it's uh it's uh
it is definitely contrarian, but it's
not just contrarian for contrarian's
sake.
It plays a little bit of our of our own
psychology. Uh and then I would say just
to just to finish that thought there is,
you know, I grew up, you know, I'm an
immigrant. Uh
I came to the US uh from Pakistan when I
was a kid. Have a little bit of a weird
name and uh you feel like, you know,
anybody I grew up in in in Detroit in
Warren, Michigan, specifically for all
those at home. And uh when you feel that
you're a little bit on the edge of
society or you're not maybe in the
mainstream, and this is you know,
resonates with some people and that's
not as as resonate with everybody. You
feel very skeptical of the mainstream
because you're just on the outside for
so long. And I think you can trace a
bunch of founders' psychology to this
feeling of being an outcast, actually.
And so then you find yourself in a
situation where you're like the YC, you
know, see uh COO of YC, and the
narrative of I'm an outsider is like
you're like I don't know if there's
anything more inside than being, you
know, the YC COO, right? So, I think uh
that reconciliation, I think over the
over my career also has has has had to
happen, which is like
maybe that's just kind of a weird weird
kind of thing. And so, when I talked to,
you know, Marc Andreessen, who who's who
really pushed me to go go online or Elad
or whoever it is,
uh their view is leave your baggage and
your trauma,
you know, in the background, and really
let's let's think more pragmatically.
And the pragmatic thing here is whether
I like to do these types of things or
not, fundamentally, it helps get the
message out. And the message can be
something very small and myopic, like
what's happening in physical AI and
machines become intelligent, or much
larger, which is what's what's happening
in society through this, you know,
fundamental change that we're going
through. I I I've had the rare privilege
or the uh you know, experience of seeing
the full economic spectrum. You know,
I've I've really seen the the extreme
ends of both sides and and truly I I
really mean that. And uh so
somebody like Mark uh who is close to
our our our our company says, "Well,
that's a
those are some ideas that are worth
getting out beyond just, you know,
you're there promoting whatever some,
you know, your company or something like
that." And and that I actually I that I
can get behind, which is like the debate
and discussion about ideas and what's
happening to our society because of
these technical changes. And um and so,
you know, here I am.
Amazing. Okay, so there's a few threads
I want to follow there. One is you were,
as you said, COO at Y Combinator.
You saw a lot of startups up close. You
had you This is your third startup on
your own.
Something that I hear you talk about is
that
successful companies almost always show
traction very early.
A lot of founders here like, "No, just
keep trying fighting and maybe maybe
we'll be the next Figma Notion 4 years
in. We'll figure it out." What's your
experience there and what's your advice
to founders who aren't seeing traction
early?
Uh nuances. I mean, if I was starting
another company, I'd call it nuance. All
right, so
the the uh I think uh what you're saying
is correct. I I I I I continue to
believe that. I think good companies
tend to be to have traction fairly early
and then just sustain it for a decade
plus.
To the founders that's toiling, let's
say if you're listening and you're about
2 years into your company and and you're
maybe having a tough time building
getting money and building that first
product that could consumers or or
businesses really love either through
retention or dollars.
Two years is a very is the difficult
time. The heuristic that I would use is
if I'm not
if the information I'm getting from the
market is not informing me on a more and
more specific path,
I would consider resetting. And what I
mean by reset is oftentimes, and this is
wearing my YC hat seeing, you know,
hundreds and and and thousands of
companies, is oftentimes is like the
co-founding like literally the
foundation upon which the house is built
is not correct. It's like imagine you
built this house and every time you put
a couple of water and it slides off the
table and it falls on the ground. And
you're do you keep adjusting the table?
It's like maybe the foundation is
actually wrong. The whole house is off
kilter. And the foundation might not
only be your co-founders, it could be
the market that you're in. It could be
the phase of life that you're in and the
amount of effort that you're willing to
put into that thing in order to make it
successful. So, there's a bunch of
reasons that a company can fail. Uh and
you have to be able to
somehow say I don't know what is the
reason. I'm just going to have to hard
reset here. One thing I would tell
founders and I tell a lot of Applied is
creating a founder class in itself.
People who work at Applied Intuition are
now starting their own companies. Uh you
know, we have a thousand plus engineers
and over time they they're they're
they're starting their own firms. And I
say to all of them is
just imagine the first time you're going
to do startup for the first three year,
it's a zero.
Just rid yourself of the expectation
that it's going to be successful and
that you're really and you're you're a
craftsperson. If we were make if we were
if this is a woodworking podcast and you
said, you know, the first a table that
you built was, you know, what was
wobbly, you wouldn't say, well, go work
at Crate & Barrel. You'd say, oh, that's
the first table. We're going to we're
going to keep at it. It Being a founder
is its own muscle.
And you want to exercise that muscle,
but I think a lot of founders,
especially earlier in their founding
career, put such an incredible pressure
on themselves to make it great out of
the gate that they actually miss the
thing that you're getting in that first
round, which is learning. And building
that muscle. And the second and third
time. And I think it's not random that
my third company is the most successful
company. I think I think that's the that
I think in that you see that more often
than not. There are funds which are
almost exclusively focused on multi-time
founders, right? For for for this
reason. What I love about that advice is
often the best ideas come from when
you're you have low expectations, you're
just playing around, you're just
tinkering, you're not like I'm going to
build the next great I don't know, uh,
Google. Uh, it's just you having fun.
And that and that's like how I found
this world that I'm in right now, this
path, and Open Collective is a good
example of that. I think what's the why
that advice is so difficult is if you
hear this and you're like, you know,
you're in you're in the you're in the
proverbial war. You're like, what the
hell are these people talking about
having fun?
Like this this this is hard. And so you
have to like hold these contra- like
contrasting kind of or conflicting views
in your head, which is like it's deeply
very, very important, and you should
give it your all, and it's also not that
important.
And then that's a really hard thing to
reconcile and keep keep in balance.
And the way that you approached this
company where you stayed quiet like
that, I think helps a lot where you're
not
>> Absolutely. It's it that like the uh you
know, even like uh at YC when I became
uh COO, I I told Sa- Sam Altman was a
president, and I told Sam, um, "Let's
not announce this for like a year."
Because,
you know, if the
partners don't want me to be COO, it's
not a successful thing. I you know, I
don't have the pressure of the public
sub- public scrutiny that, you know, why
were you COO only for 6 months or
something like that. And I think you
have to be very honest with yourself as
a founder and as as being that those
things matter. What people think about
you matter and it impacts yourself and
be having the spotlight on you, you
know, the I always say it's very easy to
pivot before you raise money and before
you have employees. No nobody cares.
The moment you raise money and the more
importantly, the moment you hire
employees, employees join a very
specific mission. And you go and you you
walk into the office and there's 10 of
them you say, "Guys, turns out this is
wrong. We're going in a different
mission." Imagine if this was war. It's
like, "What the hell we just we're
attacking that hill and now we just say
that hill is not important? Like, how do
you know the next hill is important?"
And you as a lead, you lose a lot of
credibility. And it's not only for the
superficial list of being a credible
leader, it's a practical nature of when
you're very very public, they become the
the startup becomes your identity.
And then suddenly you're you're having
to reconcile that actually that thing is
not correct. So, it's it is one of our
our our we have these core values in the
company. And and and early in the
company you have this line which says,
"Our best work is done alone and
quietly."
And I I deeply believe that. And and so
founders I would I would think of it
that way. Um
but it's for pragmatic reasons. It's not
like some just because it's cool to be
under the radar.
It's it's it's just allows you to maybe
work in a bit more peace.
I love these core values you've shared
so far. This the last one the best work
is done alone quietly. I'm so on board
with that.
Radical pragmatism is the other one you
shared earlier. Are there are there a
couple more there? These are These are
gems.
>> Yeah, we those are like I would say the
the the the meta values. We we have very
specific
let's say operating principles. And this
is this is real as tactical as advice I
can give to founders. So, we can to come
up with your values when you're getting
a little bit of traction. And the reason
I say that is early enough where you and
the way you come up with the values is
not like, "What values should we have
like as philosophers?" No, no. You
should figure out why are we being
successful?
Like literally write down the five to 10
things that are the reasons you are
being successful. And those become your
values and you kind of re And so we did
that and so our first one was going to
speed above everything.
And it was like us being fast. The
second one is like, you know, never
disappoint the customer.
Technical mastery. High output matters.
Like all the way down to like, you know,
ones that are not obvious like laugh a
lot. That's been our core value from at
the beginning of the company's history.
It's like when you're working at
Intercom things, if you don't have the
ability to keep grounded, have
perspective, laughter and humor also is
a way to get subtle feedback and that's
slightly different taste than this
sucks. You can say, "It's not the best."
And And that is slightly And And so
you're you're really creating the
framework in which people are learning
how to behave with each other within the
company. And so today the values really
serve us as almost like uh they're like
guiding principles. And so I you know,
we do new team meetings that every week
Peter and I would meet all the all the
new team members and we're almost always
just talking about the values in in some
some level of detail and depth. Yeah. Uh
another value half the work is
follow-up. Like just taking notes and
following up. That is the business. It's
not more complex than that. Laugh a lot
is my new favorite company value. Uh
Yeah.
>> Sounds like a wonderful place to work.
And then on the on the last piece there,
there's this book that just came out by
Stripe Press about maintenance
and how valuable and underappreciated
the maintenance part of work is.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah, I think
like if there if there's a takeaway that
you get from, let's say, a bit of my
philosophy on on where we you know, we
started the conversation around like why
if you know, being promotional has all
these negative connotations in it, but
so I
I am careful using that word, but why
not be promotional? It's because there's
costs to everything.
And so if you can focus on the craft and
making the product really, really good
and really listening to your customers,
you have a much higher likelihood of
success. And and then you can you can
always then go and and and and scale
there. A part of that is the thing that
you're talking about. Maintenance or
another version of in in you know, like
my my roots are in automotive
engineering. And automotive engineering
is actually a exercise in quality.
Uh that's that's really what it's you're
you're building these very complex
machines at scale. You know, people talk
about rockets being really, really
complex. You only got to send up a
rocket even at the highest like once
every couple of days. You're making a
car every 30 seconds and you have to
make it extremely cheap and it's
globally competitive. So,
you really get into the nuance and
minutia of how a factory runs. And a
factory is about safety and maintenance.
It does not There's not a lot of complex
things. It's just you know, it's like
when you when you break down what is
being operationally
uh you know, strong. Operationally
strong is keeping an eye on a handful of
things and making sure you're doing them
really, really good. And I I I'm I'm one
of those believers that you know, there
there's this adage is a man who cannot
command himself is not fit to command
others.
Um and it's like that maintenance aspect
is a part of that, right? It's like when
if you maintain yourself and your own
work, you maintain the your team, you
maintain the company, the products are
almost they come out of all of that that
that that system. And I think a lot of
founders don't think about their company
as a system or almost as a machine. But
I I would implore you to do that because
then you really focus on the craft of
the machine and building the machine and
making it more hygienic.
Uh and and and and and making it more
well-tuned. Just like you know, you'll
you'll meet people who really love cars
and they
they really obsess about the maintenance
of cars. You know, like like they will
they will detail like underneath the
driver seat. As somebody who details my
own cars, like nobody's going to look at
that, but it's under that same ethos of
of really caring a lot about the craft
and being and being
and frankly speaking since you have a
limited amount of time, it's hard to
really care about
X and also
making it making sure company's
hygienic. And and there's different
reasons at different points of your
company that you should do different
things, but that's kind of a little bit
of the ethos. I love how you keep coming
back to just staying quiet, working just
working on the thing and not talking
about it. Your point last point there
makes me think of that um the score
takes care of itself. Uh classic.
>> Yeah, so Joe Montana is actually one of
our investors. In our series D post we
the post was the valuation takes care of
itself. We like very much we fall into
that category. Um and it's like it's
like you know, sometimes people will
come to our office and uh they'll say oh
like it's like such a clean office. You
guys must have like this giant cleaning
staff. And it's like actually we clean
our office.
Uh the just like in Japanese school as I
said I mentioned that I lived in Japan,
like the students clean their clean
their uh own schools. We have a cleaning
zen every week and everyone cleans
the area around them. And I think it's
important that like there's something
about this ethos of like uh also like
not getting so wrapped up in your own
narrative of like I'm a Stanford
software engineer and I do AI. It's like
clean up your desk.
So there's like some like basic things
like that. Uh and I don't know what that
larger philosophy is. Uh but it is a
philosophy that we we we kind of drive
towards. And I think like you know, our
claim to fame which is kind of a crazy,
you know, reality is we've never spent
any money we've ever raised. You know,
in the history of the company which is
kind of it almost sounds like it's made
up. It's actually the company's almost
10 years old, you know, 1,000 engineers
plus. And so we're a functioning
business
without using capital that we raised.
And I think it's somehow connected to us
cleaning the office. I don't I don't
know how, but it's like
>> these cleaning costs. It all makes
sense.
>> yeah, yeah, yeah.
We still have people
clean, but like we also are
like employees also are aware of their
surroundings. And I think there's a
direct line between like be quiet and
alone and clean your desk and
well-written software. And I don't know
what that thing is, but it's all falls
in the same arc. I know you also have a
no shoe policy for that same reason.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it also
influenced by Japan. I think the
you know
worked there and we we had a similar
office setup. The other the other other
way to think about this maybe as again
if I'm just trying to impart everything
I've known to founders cuz I feel like
that's my you know that that's who
that's who that that information is so
limited and everyone's kind of trying to
make it up frankly speaking.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly is
I would implore you as a founder to
really try to take the best of
Japan and the best of Germany, the best
of China, the best of Detroit, the best
of Silicon Valley. And and you know I
think sometimes people take that Steve
Jobs line and they really like you know
deform it when they say like great
artists steal. What he's really talking
about is like the less the less
magnanimous version of that is
be humble and learn from everything
around you. And as a leader and be be
well-rounded. I think like reading is
should be
there's a Charlie Munger line where he
says I've never met anybody very very
successful who doesn't read all the time
and I like very much fall into that
category as well.
And so if you like unpack why that is
like why does reading a physical book
make you a better founder? Like I just
like ask that question the most direct
way is I'm not reading you know if you
especially my my ethos of reading is
read old books. Don't read anything new.
Read read old books because time has
filtered out a lot of the noise. So you
get a lot of signal. And in your life
you you're going to a thousand books
maybe you'll read like in the
best case scenario. You're going to read
probably 50 to 100 books which is kind
of crazy for the average person. So
you're just not going to read many. So
don't read low quality content. You read
there are there are true pillars of of
kind of of human
ideas out there. You consume those ideas
and then it's up to you to interpret how
those ideas then reflect upon the
business that you're leading or the
technology that you're developing. I
absolutely believe reading a a a a book
like Malcolm X's autobiography
will make you a better founder and it's
not I again it's like the whole cleaning
zen all the way to clean code. It's not
directly one-to-one related. I think we
always want these very simple
if-then statements uh but I think being
a well-rounded founder where you
understand
society around you and history around
you that somehow makes you build a
better product. And I don't know how uh
and how and why but I think it's
absolutely true. I I I do see a
connection there. And then people like
Charlie Munger who are not an AI founder
obviously also believe that and I I
think so there there's some some pattern
there. Like it's interesting this is the
same it's a metaphor for LLMs. You feed
all this data somehow they become almost
conscious. How does that happen? No one
no one fully knows.
Um it's so interesting how similar you
are to Mark Andreessen and your way of
thinking and the way you consume
content. Like there's
>> We're both bald.
There's a pressure here just here's how
here's here's important ingredients to
being really successful. Yeah I mean
Mark I mean
uh you know we're we're fortunate enough
to choose
you know our investors and and that's a
true privilege. I didn't have that in my
first company. We spent years we didn't
raise a dollar. So I don't I don't I I
certainly appreciate it but uh you know
if I've ever had like a a mentor you
know Mark would fall into that category.
And as I knew him before applied and we
we debated and talked a lot and uh I
think Mark uh
is also like that, right? He really
consumes content actually outside of
this little industry that we're in and
then I think it makes him actually a
better investor. Yeah, you're we'll
point people to your website. You have a
list of the books that you recommend and
love and it's very long and very not
what you often see.
I can't help but just ask are there a
few books that have most influenced your
thinking, most influenced your life?
Yeah, that list is like I've thought for
I've been thoughtful about about about
that and it the reason I
use books like hit the you know the
autobiography of Malcolm X as an example
is I know that's not on the top of the
list. Everyone's going to you know if I
say high output management classic Andy
Grove, you know you guys know that. So
it's a partly
Yeah, yeah, exactly. It's like partly
the theatrics of also entertaining you
but also giving you new information as a
as a as a listener.
I think like a good
the books I'm currently reading is the
this is kind of a random you know slot
of books like I'm reading the the vibe
coding book that came out that our whole
company's reading that which is a new
book and it kind of goes against my
grain of my heuristic.
But
the emperor of all maladies the the
cancer book
fantastic book I'm almost done with it.
Like
I think it changes the way I think. Like
you you you read that and it changes the
way it and I think that's the ultimate
test.
When a piece of material changes your
existing framing on life, this is this
is good in the LLM use case this this
this is somehow related in the sense of
diverse data
makes your understanding of the world
more rich and nuanced and therefore it's
better.
But yeah, so like I'm always inspired to
give like more wacky kind of examples
rather than than the the obvious ones.
But
the obvious ones that if I really wasn't
wasn't you know wasn't being theatrical,
I think Sam Walton's book Made in
America is a unbelievable book. It's
very, very good. He wrote it on his
deathbed.
You know, My American Journey is also
very good. Colin Powell's book, it's not
It's not on my website, but it's It's
really good. You know, I I'm I'm I'm
somebody who tries to connect some of
these dots from like us being, you know,
cave people to now like living in, you
know, you know, Silicon Valley working
as a venture-backed AI company founder.
And so, guns
books like Guns, Germs, and Steel really
are top of that list of fantastic
fantastic book. Or Collapse, also same
author.
So, yeah, but my my my point to
founders is read the stuff
You can still go to physical bookstores.
Read the stuff that is both old and
well-regarded and you know nothing
about. I often, when I'm trying to find
the next book to read, like I remember
the way I picked up SPQR, which is the
book on on Roman history, was like I was
like, I don't actually know a lot about
Roman history. I know the high-level
stuff. So, like think about all the
ideas in the universe from philosophy to
history to, you know, Jainism to the
rise of, you know, Japan as a as a
feudal state. Like areas you don't
really know. And then just find the best
book in that space.
And I think you you just start filling
in the blanks. And so, often I I I
that's kind of like the way that I grok
the ecosystem is like, what don't I know
anything about? And let me go find the
best piece of material in in in that.
And yeah. Is it a book well I like that.
So, Mark's Mark's philosophy is a
barbell strategy of only today news like
X and 10 years ago books. I love that
you're like No, I just like
upside down T almost. Just only today
>> Yeah, you
I mean,
you know, Mark was a heavy influence in
me getting on X. So, so, you know, he's
he's he's he's he's propagated that that
that view. I I I
The The thing that I really do agree
with him in a is on as our company
becomes a larger,
more influential, and impactful company
in society, it is my responsibility
as a co-founder of the company and the
CEO of the company to at least propagate
my ideas to
our first AI founder community and then
larger the technology leadership and
then the the world large. And so that's
that's part of it. I think in that with
Mark as Mark has really taken it and you
know you think about VCs. Not long ago,
you would never even know who their
names are. Yeah.
I mean they were like this they were
like, you know, they're like PE guys or
you know, hedge fund managers. You you
can't even think of names. They're
they're like they're just blobs of
ominous sounding
Obsidian Corporation or something like
that. And it's only A16Z and a couple of
other folks, John Doerr, who really kind
of created the hey, I'm going to be the
individual investor and I'm going to
propagate a certain set of ideas and
that's going to it create gravity within
Silicon Valley. It's an influence
founders to then make certain types of
companies and then of course they invest
in those. I'm this thread about reading
to find almost areas you disagree and
and don't, you know, haven't thought
about. I know one of your approaches to
management and one of the maybe of value
is to encourage your leaders to listen
to naysayers, to not create this
positive reinforcement cycle. Talk about
why that's important and how you
operationalize that. So, imagine you
know, I'm not the the founder of the
company and Peter's not the co-founder
of the it's just just a generic company.
The ideal that you the ideal situation
with the generic company is one that you
can put in lots of different competing
ideas.
The culture is one where you will shake
those ideas out. There's not an emotion
in it. Whoever brings the idea the best
best idea wins. So, why can't companies
do that?
Frankly speaking, a lot of times it's
the founders and the founders are told
the you know, by you know, popular media
and the way that human beings experience
life and our tribal kind of outlook that
you have to have this hard view, and
everyone has to have to they're not
following you, then maybe you're a weak
leader or something like that. And I
think we just don't believe
that we don't just believe in that
philosophy. And I think we we we believe
that what maybe a more tactical way of
saying that is we take inputs of the
environment, our customers specifically,
our employees, our competitors, of our
investors, and we of what's happening in
society at large, and that impacts our
strategy. And uh and I think it's one of
the reasons we've been very, very
successful. We're not we're not so
arrogant to think that we just have the
answers because we had the ambition to
start a company.
And I think that permeates into a very
specific culture. And I think the
culture that we've built is one it's
also not being contrarian for
contrarian's sake.
Right? I like if one one view I do have
is emotions are generally not helpful in
making rational decisions. They're
almost like the opposite of it. And
sometimes passion and
you know, leadership are supposed to be
about you know, they're supposed to be
like again, magnanimous or or or
emotional. And I we just don't believe
that.
And and that's I think a bit more of our
kind of Midwest, you know,
you know, roots showing for Peter and I
and and and and so I think it's not that
we say, "Hey, disagree with everything
in the room."
What we specifically say is, "Speak up.
Speak up. Everyone has to speak up
because
that one person with their one
experience because they worked at, you
know, Zoox or Waymo or whatever, Tesla,
or they worked at a Chinese company,
whatever it is, that one idea they have
in their head when the debate is
happening about what we should do in
um you know, in space, like literally
the space of space.
Uh and and something maybe we don't know
much about. That one person's one idea,
they have to feel comfortable
sharing it even if they're the most
junior person or they feel that they
didn't get their way in the last debate
or they they feel you know, whatever
whatever
anxiety that they might have, they have
to share that opinion that a guy this is
actually the right idea or this is the
wrong idea. And if you can create that
environment where the best idea wins.
You know, Gandhi has this line, truth is
what stands the test of time.
We're trying to you know, and I think
this has become a little bit of a meme
in the Bay Area like truth-seeking, you
know, as a culture. But it's kind of is
like that. We're trying to find the best
idea. Maybe truth is the wrong word and
maybe it's the best idea.
Find the best idea and then let's go
full bore at against best idea. Let's
maybe use a counterfactual. Why do
companies fail when they
have great talent and they have, you
know, seemingly all the same components
that have
an applied intuition have? It's because
maybe the best ideas are not being
surfaced and certainly maybe they're not
actually being adopted. Or more often
than not when I think about companies
that have been very successful is they
have momentum going in a specific
direction.
And that momentum over that that that
that that that wall of sound overwhelms
any new sound that's emerging which is
hey, the market's changing. The market's
changing. You can just can't even hear
that because there's all this momentum
going in a particular direction. A a
good example I had front row seats for
this when I worked at Google. It was the
era where Facebook was emerging. And
here was Google and people don't
remember Google in the late double O's
and early teens.
Google wasn't just
a company. It was the apex predator of
Silicon Valley. Apple was just, you
know, the MacBook Air had just come out.
Steve Jobs was had had his getting in
the right direction but nothing like
Apple is today. Amazon AWS was still a
young thing. Nvidia was teetering off of
bankruptcy. Uh, I mean, all these giant
companies that you think of, Microsoft
was run by Ballmer, you know, Twitter
was a small thing. And then you So, it
wasn't it was But Google was this
already larger than life number one
company. Everybody wanted to work at
Google. And there was there were there
were not many companies with that
stature. And then in the periphery, this
little company Facebook starts emerging.
And Google, who has the best engineers
on the planet, is making a billion in
cash flow a month,
tries to fight this little company. That
And And I remember Facebook at that time
maybe had a thousand people. And Google
was like, you know, 15x, 20x the size
with a lot of cash flow. And why
couldn't Google fight Facebook? It's
because Google is not Facebook. It's
like that Confucian saying, like, how
does a gorilla learn how to fly? By not
being a gorilla. The way that Google
would have won the social media wars by
being a social media company. It's It's
just fundamentally not. And so, the
large This happens in companies all the
time, which is you're just going in one
direction with momentum,
consciously or unconsciously, because
that's what all the employees are,
that's what the culture is, that's what
they what they work on. And then
something changes in the market and you
just can't even even even move there.
And I think that also can happen un- or
surprisingly at really small companies.
So, where founders have a view
and it's like that view is the view it's
going to be. And actually, that can be
just 10° off from what is the was the
correct path and the whole company's
kind of led astray. So, they were in the
right market. They might have even been
solving the right problem, but they were
just a little off. And so, we're so
scared of failing and so scared of
losing that I will humble myself and
listen to other people. And they say,
"Hey, we're 5° off off course here." And
it's like, "Okay, let's let's let's
let's maybe fix the course." And then
once you that becomes your culture, then
it's really hard to lose. Because
everybody's not about fulfilling a
preset path. They're just about finding
the you know, how to win.
This is exactly what I wanted to ask
about. Everyone listening to this either
is like, "Oh yeah, we're very
open-minded. We're We're absolutely
going to listen to everyone's opinions
and decide rationally the right path in
practice."
>> never happens.
>> Right. Or they're just like, "We're just
We know we're not good at this. We're
just like too nice to each other."
Um how do you
how do you do this at a company that
isn't good at this? Is it like does it
have to be the CEO top-down in your
experience? Does it have to be part of
the culture? How do you operationalize
at a company that's not like you?
You know, the the middle way is the
typically the right way. And and it's
it's it's hard to find the middle way
because these are conflicting ideas.
These are the the the the the the the
the guardrails or the flag posts you
just set. One side is like, "We're just
going to go." And the other side is,
"We're too you know, maybe like almost
like unsure."
And you have to somehow
once you do make the have that debate,
you have to then confidently walk down
that path. And again, this is
conflicting. I just said "Be humble
enough to listen to what's going on."
But then once that decision is made, the
decisive In our values, that first value
you know, the speed value, which is
specifically the wording is "Move fast,
move safe." That's specifically the
wording. We assess our managers on
adherence to those values. Literally, we
compensate and promote against those
values. They're not just like abstract
values. So, the behavior we're actually
looking at under speed is decisiveness.
So, we're setting a that is looking at
you know, these conflicting kind kind of
things. One is like, "Be open." And the
other one's, "Make decisions quickly."
And and you have to hold the hold those
in tension. This is why you as the
co-founder or founder of the company get
paid the big bucks.
You got to do that. You got to You have
to know when to when to bluff and when
to hold them and you know, when to fold
them as as as as they say. So, you you
you you you
at some point
and that point comes sometimes faster
than you think, you will not get any
more information and you have to make a
decision.
So, that you're you're you're you're
walking this very very thin line.
Your point about emotions was extremely
interesting and I want to make sure
people don't take away the wrong
takeaway here. Um so, what I actually
found really helpful, which I think is
aligned with what you were suggesting is
taking emotions out of it. The way I've
used this in my work is uh when you have
to make a hard decision
pretend nobody's feelings would be hurt
and emotions are not involved. What
would you do? If nobody cared, if
they're like totally great. So, what
would you do do in that world? And then
that tells you, okay, that's actually
the right thing to do. And then it's,
okay, how do I help people feel okay
about this? How do I deal with the
downsides of this path? Yeah, I think I
think that that's the that's the obvious
version of it. I think maybe another
version of think is it's an emotion is
let's take another route. You
as the leader or as the engineer who is
getting direction
you already have some preset view that
this is my idea.
That's an emotional
you know, that's an emotional construct
and it's it's it's around ownership and
feeling of ownership. So, yeah, I'm I I
really fall into that category of like
the more So, like even maybe most
fundamentally, like what is an emotion?
An emotion is like these set of
reactions that have been that a
framework that's been imparted in your
brain through life experiences.
And those life experiences might not
actually make you optimize they've not
been optimized for you to make a
decision in a
product review.
And so, the the the more you can pull
that away, a good heuristic would be
the same decision being made by multiple
people in the company gets the same
result.
So, you're removing a little bit of that
almost like filter. You can almost think
of that emotion as like a filter.
So, I like to have the raw image come
through, the raw decision come through
so we can consistently classify it
again and again. Not to get too
abstract, but I don't I don't know if
that makes sense.
>> Yeah, it makes sense and
I have one last question but
there's an interesting trend I've
noticed with people talking about AGI.
The missing
piece I've been hearing more and more is
just emotions
are what creates consciousness
potentially. Michael Pollan has a new
book out about consciousness and his
take is it's not just more intelligence,
it's actually emotions that led to the
consciousness. I think it's it's
it's
under let's say um
undermining how complex human thought is
to think that it's just
the let's say the you know inputs and
outputs of or let's say association for
the lack of better word of ideas, facts,
words, letters. It's not just those
associations and
and creativity is kind of a little a
little bit you know of that as well.
Like like with the old the old saying of
like technical mastery is mastering the
complex and I think computers do that
really well and creativity is mastering
the simple. I'm sure I'm going to eat my
words on this as like the best artist in
like three years
will be will be
yeah yeah. And so I think and this is
again goes back to my philosophy of like
consume broad you know broad inputs but
then try to remove that filter, see
things as honestly as they possibly can,
create a culture in the company that is
also similar and doesn't put any weight
on who the idea came from or where it
came from but then ultimately as a
leader you decide and by the way
you got to be right. Like that's the
other thing I think a lot of founders
that just were not where we don't
emphasize enough. Founders love to take
credit for for things it's just human
nature everybody does. But they the the
reality is you have to be right. It's
not enough to just start a company. It's
not enough to,
you know, have this vision of the world.
You have to be right. And the evidence
is is the company a sustainable
standalone business. Cuz we're talking
specifically about, you know,
venture-backed AI companies in Silicon
Valley. All of my I should have said
this at the beginning. All of my you
know, all of my advice is specifically
for that narrow group, which is which is
founders of of AI venture-backed
companies in the Bay Area. Speaking of
that, last question. I've been wanting
to get to this cuz it's an interesting
spicy take that you have as a last
question. I know you have to run after
this.
You have this view that a lot of CEOs in
Silicon Valley don't actually have great
taste.
I'm excited to hear what your experience
there and just what
what you think about that. Yeah, I I I
also want to be careful to imply that I
do. Uh
Okay. Okay. I fall into that into that
group. Uh I think uh you know, the it is
true because a lot of
couple of reasons. Both both taste in
the most, let's say,
uh you know, artistic sense and in the
most specific like running a company and
like what should be the policy like HR
policy for, you know, point X. Uh a lot
of that is I think they're just not
exposed to a lot of interesting good
things. And and uh that's been a theme
in this whole conversation is like just
just get more and more exposure. I It's
very unfortunate when I meet somebody
who and I'm not taking thinking of
anyone particular. So, if this is you
and you're one of my friends, I
apologize. I don't I'm not talking about
you. But it's like, you know, you grow
up in Cupertino, you go to Berkeley, and
you start and the first thing you do
when you come out of school is you start
a company and then that's that's all you
do, you know, for 20 Like you've never
even been an employee.
And why I think that's so important like
I spent over a decade working in large
organizations. And like truly large like
more more than 100,000 employees. Like a
General Motors or like a Bosch.
And when you're in the, you know, the
you know, the back alley of that
organization, the bowels of those
organizations,
you learn how bad it is to be an
employee. Like the bureaucracy above
you, leadership doesn't know what's
going on, the industry, you know, your
antiquated tools, all this stuff. Why
that's so important to experience as an
individual is then when you become a
leader,
you're making policies and you're
creating culture and you have to keep
that in mind. And a bunch of founders
who just never had the frankly the
fortune of being at the bottom of the
totem pole.
And uh and that's just one version of
how to you know the that doesn't
obviously seem like you know
uh read read you know
consume the photos of Bresson or you
know Picasso or whoever it might be.
Um but it's something similar. There's
something similar about you you can
sometimes meet founders and maybe maybe
a good heuristic here is like
there's some founders that would be good
at lots and lots of things. Actually not
just being a founder of an AI company in
the Bay Area and there's something about
taste there. Because if you really what
you're talking about is like
understanding humans and understanding
life and then being able to discern
with some judgment
what is good and what's not good. Cuz
that's really what we're talking about.
And uh and so if you if you're if you're
if you're life experience is very
narrow, you you could still be good and
and you might you and and have the
ability to discern what's good and
what's what's what's not good.
But I think like there's something about
like if you've backpacked for a few
years around the world, I somehow
believe that's going to be a better
founder. It's like you know I don't know
how I can there's no peer-reviewed
research that can that I can point to
that that that says that. So I think you
that's what I'm getting at. There there
is some developing of taste. Yeah.
Well, uh
I feel like we have helped people build
their taste, build feed their feed their
model with more insights and different
perspectives in this conversation. I
feel like we could chat for hours, but I
know you got to run. Yeah, I'm not sure
if
there are any real takeaways other than
Okay, zero. We really we really went
everywhere. I'm I'm sorry if you had a
particular line of questions you wanted
to go down. We went in all the perfect
directions. Okay, good. Good. Good.
Kaster, thank you so much for doing
this. Thank you so much for being here.
Um final question, just where can folks
find you online? How can listeners be
useful to you?
Uh that's a great question. I mean I
love to hear what are books that I don't
know.
Um so that's that's always good. I've
I've I've some of my favorite books have
been just randomly kind of recommended
to me. So
I'd I'll I'll take that. Of course um
I consume, you know, research as well.
And so if there's something particularly
novel that's going on, obviously all the
mainstream stuff we as a company and me
as an individual are going to consume,
but things that are a bit off the beaten
path, we're always looking for that.
Uh but yeah, and then if you if you have
a particular opinion about
specifically our domain, physical AI,
and how AI is going to impact
mines, farms, constr- you know,
construction sites,
uh robotecs, all of that stuff. I'm
always interested to hear new new
opinions on that or even old opinions
maybe with a different viewpoint. So
uh yeah, if you if you see me, you can
see me online. Of course, uh I'm always
around as well. I'm always always open
to that feedback. And you're on Twitter
now. There you go. Yeah, exactly. Yeah,
follow me there. So I
yeah, exactly. That that's that's the
answer.
>> call to action.
Channelling my inner inner Mark.
>> There you go. Kaster, thank you so much
for doing this and for being here.
Yeah, thanks for having me. It was a lot
of fun. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review, as that really
helps other listeners find the podcast.
You can find all past episodes or learn
more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.